Rfc 18 application process (#42)
internet-sicherheit/eco-blockchain-governance: governance/0018-application-process/README.md

# RFC 0018: Application process for new members
- Authors: Tina Marquardt (marquadt@internet-sicherheit.de) and Chinmay Khandekar (khandekar@internet-sicherheit.de) 
- Status: [PROPOSED](/0001-rfc-process/README.md)
- Since: 2020-08-12 
- Status Note: Draft
- Supersedes:
- Start Date: 2020-08-01
- Tags: governance, onboarding, member, application, process

## Summary

The RFC provides the guidelines to develop objective criteria for an application process to select new members to join a consortial blockchain network.
 
## Motivation

> A transparent application process flow provides a clear and transparent overview to the applicant and members. It increases confidence that their application has been scrutinized well before a decision is made and that only elgibile and trustworthy organizations are able to join.

Reviewer: Please use semantic line breaks, as defined in RFC-0001.

## Specifications

> * Workflow process for the organization when applying to join consortial blockchain network.

Reviewer: Process for the applying organization?

> * Needs to be combined with #0003RFC

Reviewer: Use relative links to reference other RFCs.

* Criteria to evaluate applicants
* Voting for new members

> * Voting algorithm including a "majority rule"

Reviewer: Talking about voting here is over-specification.

Reviewer 2: In principle I think it is not bad if the voting process is addressed but in the form that there should be voting processes.

* Interval for internal voting process

> * Nodes(s) that are implemented after successful application

Reviewer: Somehow all open discussions are lost on the PR? 
Nodes are a technical implementation detail, we should not consider here.

> * Nodes(s) that are implemented after successful application

Reviewer 2: This is not quite clear to me what is actually meant in the context

>   ** Public contributions of any kind the prospective Steward commits (in writing in its Steward application) to making to the Sovrin Foundation or the Sovrin Community.
> * Any other specific Practices and Procedures involved in the Steward application process MUST be publicly documented on the Sovrin Foundation website.

Bloxberg defines new member application workflow in its [Bloxberg Whitepaper v1.1](https://bloxberg.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/bloxberg_whitepaper_1.1.pdf) as follows:
> * Voting for new bloxberg consortium members. Workflow:
>   ** Applicant fills out a form on the official (bloxberg.org) website
>   ** The Iron Throne adds the applicant to the voting dApp
>   ** Once every 4 weeks members vote for 4 weeks on new applicants
>   ** The voting is executed on-chain after an off-chain discussion
>   ** The voting is executed according to the bloxberg decision algorithm
>   ** The bloxberg consortium needs a quorum of >50% of all voting power, to execute a valid voting, but a minimum of 3 voting organizations.

> >   ** If > 50%of the valid votes areyes, the new member is accepted. If not,the new member is rejected and can reapply at a later time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>   ** If > 50%of the valid votes are yes, the new member is accepted. If not, the new member is rejected and can reapply at a later time.
```

# RFC 0018: Application process for new members
- Authors: Tina Marquardt (marquadt@internet-sicherheit.de) and Chinmay Khandekar (khandekar@internet-sicherheit.de) 
- Status: [PROPOSED](/0001-rfc-process/README.md)
- Since: 2020-08-12 
- Status Note: Draft
- Supersedes:
- Start Date: 2020-08-01
- Tags: governance, onboarding, member, application, process

## Summary

> The RFC provides the guidelines to develop objective criteria for an application process to select new members to join a consortial blockchain network.

Reviewer 3: As mentioned before, the summary is identical to the one in governance/0003-Onboarding This RFC is about the application process itself, as far as i understand.

Author: Can you show what is identical? I really don't see it. Plus it says criteria for the application process, which would be e.g. public contributions and are different from what we described in 0003, which are more legal requirements to join.

Reviewer 3: You are right, they are not identical! I totally missed the "application process" part. However, I would skip the "objective criteria" part, as this applies more to the eligibility requirements. Here, it is more about developing a process. It can be mentioned later that objectivity is a property of the process.

 
## Motivation

A transparent application process flow provides a clear and transparent overview to the applicant and members. 

> It increases confidence that their application has been scrutinized well before a decision is made and that only elgibile and trustworthy organizations are able to join.

Reviewer 3: Also, a process that gives equal chances to all eligible applicants is a good motivation.

Author: Also added that

## Specifications

* Workflow process for the organization when applying to join consortial blockchain network.
* Needs to be combined with #0003RFC
* Criteria to evaluate applicants
* Voting for new members
* Voting algorithm including a "majority rule"

> * Interval for internal voting process

Reviewer 3: I would generally replace "voting" with "decision", as it does not have to be through voting that an application is accepted or rejected.

> * Classes of Membership

Reviewer 3: This point is a bit vague. So if there are multiple classes of membership implies that there multiple committees deciding for each? Is this at all relevant for the application process?

Author: It means that there are different rights coming with different memberships (before I called it types of nodes that can be operated) than @kiview suggested classed of membership

Reviewer 3: Fine. I guess it is good to have it here but somehow inside a sentence :) Maybe you rephrase your comment a bit and add it.

Bloxberg defines new member application workflow in its [Bloxberg Whitepaper v1.1](https://bloxberg.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/bloxberg_whitepaper_1.1.pdf) as follows:
> * Voting for new bloxberg consortium members. Workflow:
>   ** Applicant fills out a form on the official (bloxberg.org) website
>   ** The Iron Throne adds the applicant to the voting dApp
>   ** Once every 4 weeks members vote for 4 weeks on new applicants
>   ** The voting is executed on-chain after an off-chain discussion
>   ** The voting is executed according to the bloxberg decision algorithm
>   ** The bloxberg consortium needs a quorum of >50% of all voting power, to execute a valid voting, but a minimum of 3 voting organizations.
>   ** If > 50%of the valid votes are yes, the new member is accepted. If not, the new member is rejected and can reapply at a later time.
>   ** After a positive vote the Iron Throne is instructed to add the new member as a Authority node to the bloxberg network.
>   ** The new member has to run one Authority node, but can have n non-Authority nodes. The Authority node must be available in the network all the time.

## Drawbacks 

> * On-chain voting is only pseudonym

Reviewer 3: Maybe rephrased as the following? In case the decision is met by members on chain, anonymity cannot be assured (pseudonimity at best).

> * Long application process may not seem contemporary for new members

Reviewer 3: I see what you mean. So in case all members of the network participate in the decision making, it implies a long waiting time.

## Prior art

* The [Sovrin Business Policy V2 Policy](https://sovrin.org/wp-content/uploads/Sovrin-Steward-Business-Policies-V2.pdf) and [Bloxberg Whitepaper v1.1](https://bloxberg.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/bloxberg_whitepaper_1.1.pdf) has been used to retrieve possible answers within this document. 

## Unresolved questions

* Is voting a good choice to approve members?

> * What alternative voting systems could be used?

Reviewer 3: Is the purpose of this RFC to describe all possible decision making schemes? I rather think not.

Author: I don't understand that comment fully :/ I created an RFC0020 called decision-making this could look at the decision-making and voting process in more detail. I think it would make this RFC more lean, understandable, and focused. Not sure if this answers your comment.

Reviewer 3: I was commenting on the fact that the unresolved questions are perhaps not relevant for this RFC, as they point to topics outside its scope, i.e. describing alternate voting schemes. But that is just my perception.

Author: Ahhh I see. Yes, I agree. Deleted them already, Will push the document in a few minutes.
